Cryptoquote game

A player will choose from one of the categories (number to be determined) and

CLICK the button linked to the

RANDOM number generator to choose the quotation from the appropriate 

ARRAY of quotations in that category.  The quotation will 

DISPLAY on the game board 

WEBPAGE as a whirl

ANIMATION DISPLAY of letters that go around

ROTATION like a spinner before each letter in the quotation appears and stands still.  

AUDIO There will be a twinkling sound and the 

ARRAY letters of the alphabet will 

DISPLAY  with blanks for the letters in the quotation, but with the letters that are NOT used in the quotation provided for the contestant.  The goal is to complete the alphabet by recognizing the quotation before risking too many points.

Scoring will be similar to darts.  Players will start with VARIABLES 500 POINTS.  They will risk various numbers of points according to their FREQUENCY (as in Scrabble).  The goal is to keep a high score by solving the cryptoquote without running out of points.  Points will be INCREMENT earned rather than spent by solving a letter correctly and DECREMENT lost when the solution fails.  A BONUS will be awarded for knowing the source of the quotation, with the current contestant getting the first turn.  It’s possible that I will design the game to allow a successful solver to keep control of the game (as in Jeopardy!). 

The DISPLAY will show the running total of 

POINTS for each player, the 
ARRAY quotation and the 
ARRAY solution with the blanks filled in as we go, and the
ARRAY alphabet solution grid.


Genius level:
Rather than using the Roman alphabet, various symbols or invented characters will be used.  Everything else will remain the same.


Components
Databases:
	Array of quotations, author, and category
	Array of symbols 

Functions:
	Select quotation using a random number generator given the category
Generate substitution cipher using random number generator
	Display the quotation using blanks for each letter
	Display the alphabet with unused letters and blanks for letters used in the quotation
	Receive a request for a letter 
	Display each instance of the letter 
	Display the total points held by the player
	Add or deduct points according to the results of the player’s move
	Change player
	


